<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>In Memoriam</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="in-memoriam" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h2>
			<article id="rev-samuel-weston" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Samuel Weston</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh! surely for thee were the gates ajar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As thy chariot onward sped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When with brightened eye and youth renewed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Triumphant thou did’st tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the gates of death, to the portals bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While the ransomed myriads sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Lift up your heads, ye Golden Gates,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let the aged pilgrim in.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No terrors for thee had the darksome vale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For like the wise virgins of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou keep’st thy lamp burning and trimmed from thy youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till three-score and ten were well told.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And oft, as a shepherd, that tends his flock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou did’st then to still waters lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ’mid the green pastures of justified grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou lovedst thy children to feed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Pastor and Leader, fond Parent, adieu,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till the last, grand trump shall sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When shepherd and flock united once more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall echo a long harvest home.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-rev-thaddeus-saltus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Thaddeus Saltus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sleep, Christian warrior, sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life’s fitful dream is o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy pain-tossed bark is anchored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Safe on the golden shore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Neath the green sward we lay thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thus early to thy rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And press the sod thus lightly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon thy gentle breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though but in manhood’s prime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the dread summons came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hush the voice so well attuned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To preaching “In His Name.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou did’st not murmur, but with joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Obeyed the Master’s word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rapture crowned did’st enter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The palace of thy Lord.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then sweetly sleep, dear Rector,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy grave we’ll deck with flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An earnest of that Better Land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of ever blooming bowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around this spot a halo twines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While angels vigils keep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we rejoice that thus “He gives</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To His beloved sleep.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tribute-to-capt-f-w-dawson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tribute to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Capt.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. W.</abbr> Dawson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>
						<span>Carolina mourns to-day.</span>
						<span>For he, the gifted</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>Son of her adoption, is no more.</span>
						<span>The voice</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stirred the bosoms of her sons, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made her ramparts ring from mount to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>Sea-board, is hushed in death.</span>
						<span>His</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Noble form, and nobler mien that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never faltered ’mid the cannon’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roar, lies motionless.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>
						<span>So Carolina weeps.</span>
						<span>’Tis meet she should⁠—</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>Her chieftain lieth low.</span>
						<span>In this</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grand, old City by the Sea, this Venice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>Of the Southland.</span>
						<span>The home he loved</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>So well.</span>
						<span>When the grey morn breaks,</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the twilight lingers, they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chant in low, sweet music, evening</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vespers for his soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then, Carolinians, build a monument for him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>But not on marble cold.</span>
						<span>Not on</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Towering dome or polished shaft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>
						<span>Should his memory be engraved.</span>
						<span>But</span>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hearts of those he loved and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Served, should immortelles, perpetual, bloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And incense, fragrant, ever rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To his memory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">
						<i xml:lang="la">Requiescat in Pace.</i>
					</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-louise-b-weston" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Louise <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> Weston</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My Mother! With the angels now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life’s race completely run;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Pilgrim’s cross is laid aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Christian’s crown is won.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Full two-score years has thy frail bark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Relentlessly been driven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along the rugged shoals of time⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now safely moored in heaven.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some vision bright of Eden’s land⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some glimpse from Nebo’s crest⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So ravished thy enraptured soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then panting for its rest,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That when the City bathed in gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Full burst upon your sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would not tarry with us more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your spirit took its flight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My Mother, when life’s sands run low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In love, in kindness come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And take the spirit of thy child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bid her “welcome home.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lines-to-mrs-isabel-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lines to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Isabel Peace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis said but a name is friendship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Soulless, and shallow, and vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the human heart ne’er beats in response,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or echoes sweet sympathy’s strain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But to-day in “memory’s mirror”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came a dear and honored one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom in days gone by had lived and had loved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ere her heavenly goal was won.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her countenance beamed as of yore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With radiant smiles of love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I felt that the friendship she lavished me here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had ripened in heaven above.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I felt that her voice so winsome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Attuned to holier rhymes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would in soft cadence tell of friendship’s truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like harp of a thousand strings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rise up and call her blest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye children of her love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a friendlier hand or a kindlier heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne’er entered the mansions above.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-memoriam-alphonse-campbell-fordham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h3>
						<p epub:type="subtitle">Alphonse Campbell Fordham</p>
						<p>Aged 6 Years, 2 Months, 20 Days</p>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Almost whose last words were</span>
							<br/>
							<span>“We shall meet beyond the River.”</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, my darling, when life’s shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Over me do darkly fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meet me surely at the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As I haste to obey the call.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gladly through the darksome valley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through its portals, grim and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will I hasten ’till my nestling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Meets me at the “Gates of Gold.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sadly do I miss my wee one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">None can fill thy vacant place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only in my dreams I fold thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only then behold thy face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See thee in thy childish beauty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Clasp thy little hand in mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever will those moments chain me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ever in my heart enshrined.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Little Heartsease, “bud of promise,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Broken off in early morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now can sin no more pollute thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the angels’ bosom borne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that land no pain or anguish</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ever can my child enfold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then my darling meet thy mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surely at the “Gates of Gold.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-edward-fordham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Edward Fordham</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When the Autumn’s breezes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were sweeping o’er the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came the mighty mandate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the upper land.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now from pain and anguish</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou hast found relief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed through death’s dark portal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Left this world of grief.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now thou’rt safely anchored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the port above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gladly do we offer thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Symbols of our love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the welcome summons</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall echo through the skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then our ransomed brother</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will hear the word “<em>Arise.</em>”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="death-of-a-grandparent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Death of a Grandparent</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Jennette Bonneu</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Rest thee aged pilgrim, now thy toils are o’er;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peacefully thou’st landed over Jordan’s shore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Safe from all the sorrows, free from all the strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thon hast passed death’s portals, entered into life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Doubtless thou wert weary, tempest tossed so long;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doubtless thou wert longing to join the happy throng;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doubtless many loved ones on the other shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whispered to thee softly “Stay on earth no more.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whispered thee, come higher, where perennial bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall with heightened luster its wonted sway resume.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Come where peaceful rivers quietly do flow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hasten mother, hasten, from that world of woe.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to fields Elysian she joyfully did soar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the blest land of Canaan to dwell forever more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All through the “Golden City” she happily doth roam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oft wondering why she stay’d so long away from home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So ’neath the bending willows we’ve laid thee down to rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well knowing thou’rt reposing secure on Jesus’ breast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well knowing that one day will come, the welcome word Arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come up, thou ransomed mortal, to thy Saviour in the skies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="queenie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Queenie</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For one brief day, did Queenie stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To brighten each fond heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sped like dove to realms above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne’er more to feel death’s dart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O! in that land, where infants stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Arrayed in spotless sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No griefs to share, nor sorrows bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No death to intervene.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We would not care, nay, would not dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To wish thee back again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, rather say, “Queenie, good day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till we your rest attain.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-infant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To an Infant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Just as the twilight’s holy hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In quietude so deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was hushing nature to repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our “Charlie” fell asleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just in the bloom of infancy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We laid him to his rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well knowing that our angel boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was numbered with the blest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well knowing that the Saviour said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oh! suffer such to come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Forbid them not,” for they are Mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heaven is their home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So bow we to God’s gracious will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For he was lent, not given;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let this cheer our drooping hearts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our Charlie is in heaven.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-memoriam-susan-eugenia-bennett" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h3>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Susan Eugenia Bennett</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>When the Sabbath was declining, just at twilight’s mystic hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left the “Upper Courts” an angel, sent to cull our sweetest flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not in judgment, not in anger, did this white-winged seraph come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But to lead a little Pilgrim through Death’s Portal to her home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And our angel child was ready, aye, and anxious to depart⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the slightest doubt o’ershadowed her trusting little heart;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with a brow as radiant as rainbow in the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She whispered softly “Mother, I’m not afraid to die.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When shall these little, weary limbs lie down to sweet repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mid the green, the verdant pastures where the limpid water flows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When shall I the Golden City sparkling in its beauty see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“When shall it be, my Saviour, O! when shall I be free?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ere the week-day with its labors, its duties and its care⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was ushered in, our darling was found on earth nowhere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with the saints in glory, and the Saviour she adored,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s happy and at rest, for aye and ever with the Lord.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-rebecca-weston" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Rebecca Weston</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>“For so He giveth His beloved sleep.”</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>She is not dead, but sleepeth;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ere long will the morning break,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When those we love who sleep in Him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall from the dust awake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She is not dead, but sleepeth;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Soon, soon will the ransomed sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O! grave, where is thy victory?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O! death, where is thy sting?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-e-cohrs-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E.</abbr> Cohrs Brown</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tread not the earth where lies her youthful form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow violets, sweet violets, above that cherished mound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bid zephyrs softly whisper in accents sweet and low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not dead, not lost, but only gone a little while before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, I, though bowed in anguish, yield her spirit to its God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And meekly clasp the smiting hand, and kiss the chast’ning rod;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May I, when time is over, greet thee on the other shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To live and love for aye and aye, where partings are no more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mrs-mary-furman-weston-byrd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Mary Furman Weston Byrd</h3>
				<div>
					<header>
						<p>Obituary</p>
					</header>
					<p><b epub:type="z3998:surname">Byrd.</b>⁠—“As one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him and lies down to pleasant dreams,” thus sweetly passed from earth to glory, on the morning of the 19th of February, 1884, <b epub:type="z3998:personal-name"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Mary Furman Weston Byrd</b>, in the 92nd year of her age, leaving two children, twelve grandchildren, and twenty great-grandchildren, to mourn her irreparable loss.</p>
					<p>“Rising up they call her blessed.” Another ancient landmark has been gathered to her Fathers. With her death a link is severed which bound two centuries together. The venerable subject of this notice was born in 1792, of parents who were both exiles from their native land; one being born in Morocco, Barbary States, the other in Marseilles, France. During her eventful life she passed throng three wars; that of 1812 in her girlhood, after the Mexican and the late Civil Wars. Possessed of a loving heart and cheerful disposition, charity was the guiding star of her life. Her widow’s mite was never faund wanting. In her the distressed and the needy met always a ready response. She died as she lived, beloved and venerated by legions to whom her very name was a household word. So then,</p>
				</div>
				<p>
					<span>Though no blossoms cluster</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above thy aged brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though winter winds are breathing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A requiem soft and low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We look beyond earth’s shadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond death’s misty plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though we sadly miss thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will not wish thee back again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Could we but see thee, dear one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the Palace of thy Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thy robe of snowy whiteness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with more than youth renewed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more on bended willows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would our broken harps remain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take us beauty for our ashes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Take us gladness for our pain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
