<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="creation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Creation</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handy work.”</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>O Earth, adore creative power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That made and gave to man as dower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This world of beauty rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With hills and vales of verdant green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rills and brooks of crystal sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lovely beyond compare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Sun, bright ruler of the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first thy power thou did'st display,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Earth must have shrank in fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When like a meteor burst thy light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turning to day the long, long night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With radiance wondrous fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou Moon, pale sister of the Sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he his daily work has done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou comest forth a queen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A queen in silvery robe adorned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tiara of jewels formed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of starry orbs unseen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye twinkling stars of milder light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though now ye gleam like sapphires bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across yon azure dome,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day will dawn, that last dread day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When from yon heaven you'll fall away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And man to Judgment come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thunder and Lightnings burst and gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frightful and fierce to us they seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rending the darkened sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like giants tread the thunder's peal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vivid lightnings swiftly steal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And men in terror fly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O filmy clouds, of purest white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With robes of gossamer cased in white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye floating waters pure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sometimes to burst in cooling showers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sometimes to deluge wintry hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With your relentless pour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou beauteous Rainbow bursting forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With varied hues encircling earth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sign to Noah made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I place amid the Clouds my Bow”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show that I will nevermore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Deluge with angry flood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mountains and Hills whose snow capped tops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vast horizon overlooks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Pyramids strung and sure;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor lightnings fierce nor earthquake shock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can ever sway, for firm as rock</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye ever will endure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou Ocean vast, oftimes thy breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is calm and still as if at rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like one in quiet sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon in anger thou may'st roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And madly toss from shore to shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And human harvest reap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fountains and Rivulets so clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That gush amid the valleys fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With soft and mellow ring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As coming forth from glade and wood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your babblings whisper “God is good,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye make the vales to sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now when all nature swells the song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When beast and birds the strain prolong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall man from praise refrain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then would the rocks and hills proclaim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All nature crying out for shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They who their Maker's image wear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should shout and sing till rent the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With rhapsodies sublime.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="shipwreck" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shipwreck</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Night and a starless sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ship on wild billows tost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tattered sails and opening seams.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deck bestrewn with falling beams.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Swift plunging to her doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Red lightnings round her flash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud thunders crash and roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the noble vessel mounts the crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the reeking waves, then sinks to rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mid carnival of woe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Petrel soars aloft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trailing her hymn of death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dirge like sounds pierce the blackened sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the crew send forth one anguished cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sinking to lowest depth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some ships go out to sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That never more return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Souls that from heaven in infancy come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tarnished and ruined by sin may become,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the Dove to the Ark they never return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But sink as ship to doom.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-washerwoman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Washerwoman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With hands all reddened and sore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With back and shoulders low bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She stands all day, and part of the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till her strength is well-nigh spent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With her rub — rub — rub,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her wash, rinse, shake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the muscles start and the spirit sinks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the bones begin to ache.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At morn when the sunbeams scatter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In rays so golden and bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She yearns for the hour of even,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She longs for the restful night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still she rubs — rubs — rubs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the energy born of want,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the larder's empty and must be filled,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The fuel's growing scant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As long as the heart is blithesome.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will her spirit bear her up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kindness and love imparteth a zest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sweeten hard life's bitter cup.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to toil—toil—toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the grey of the morn till eve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is an ordeal so drear for a human t o bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which the rich can hardly conceive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What part in the world of pleasure?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What holidays are her own?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the rich reck not of privations and tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saying, "she is to the manoi born.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So dry those scalding tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That furrow so deeply thy cheek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For rest — rest — rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will come at the end of the week.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, even on earth there's a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When labor and toil must cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world at its birth received the mandate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the seventh day of rest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the sweet-toned Sabbath bells</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Break o'er the balmy air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then sing—sing—sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the morning stars may hear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the frugal table spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the crust and the humble bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When He to whom all earth belongs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had not where to lay His head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then toil for thy daily bread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let thy heart like thy hands be clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rub—rub—rub</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till thy hones all ache, I ween.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With hands all reddened and sore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With back and shoulders bent low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou hast for thy comfort that rest, sweet rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will be found on the other shore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then they who've washed their souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will dip in the crystal tide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the fountain clear that was oped to man</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the Saviour's wounded side.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-snowdrop" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Snowdrop</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How comest thou, O flower so fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bud and bloom while wintry air</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still hovers o'er the land?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How comest from the cold, dark earth?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fostered thee and gave thee birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Studding thy brow with snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say, didst thou yearn for sunny bowers?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gladden with thy pure, pale flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The valley and the hill?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Down in the darkness whence thou came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear'st aught of passion, fashion, fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or even greed for gold?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the old earth's bosom heaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scatters man like autumn's leaves.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With its low thundered voice,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou sleep'st serene with eyelids closed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No earthquake shock breaks thy repose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till comes the breath of Spring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-saxon-legend-of-language" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Saxon Legend of Language</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The earth was young, the world was fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And balmy breezes filled the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nature reposed in solitude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When God pronounced it "very good."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The snow-capped mountain reared its head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The deep, dark forests widely spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er pebbly shores the stream did play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On glad creation's natal day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But silence reigned, nor beast nor bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had from its mate a whisper heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E'en man, God's image from above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could not, to Eve, tell of his love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the four rivers met there strayed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man and wife, no whit afraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the arch-fiend expelled from heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had not yet found his way to Eden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But lo! a light from 'mid the tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But hark! a rustling 'mongst the leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then a fair Angel from above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Descending, sang his song of love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Forth sprang the fierce beasts from their lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright feathered songsters fill the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All nature stirred to centre rang</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the celestial song began.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Lion, monarch of the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>First tried to imitate the strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shaking high his mane he roared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till beast and bird around him cohered.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The little Linnet tuned her lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lark, in turn, did welcome day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cooing soft, the timid Dove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did to his mate tell of his love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then Eve, the synonym of grace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drew nearer to the solemn place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And heard the words to music set</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In tones so sweet, she ne'er forgot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The anthems from the earth so rare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Higher and higher filled the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Seraphs caught the inspiring strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And morning stars together sang.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then laggard Adam sauntered near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What Eve had heard he too must hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah! for aye will woman's voice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make man to sigh or him rejoice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Only the fishes in the deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did not arouse them from their sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they alas! did never hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Angel's visit to this sphere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For have they ever said one word</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To mate or man, or beast or bird.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-christ-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Christ Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On a starry, wintry night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Frosty and cold was the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the lowly yale where Bethlehem stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Looked bleak, and barren and bare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her streets deserted and dim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lit only by myriads of stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That with shimm'ring light illumined the night,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Among them was fiery Mars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Adown 'mid the yalley so drear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knelt men, in wonder and fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lo! in the distance a bright star had risen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wondrously brilliant and clear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then an Angel's yoice they heard</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In heayenly tones it said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To yon I bring “glad tidings of joy,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fear not nor be dismayed."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Go follow that star, 'twill lead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the Christ-child's lowly bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though Israel's King, He sleeps in an "inn"</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the cattle oft are fed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then oyer the humble place</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the Royal Babe was laid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did the “Star of the East,” blest Bethlehem’s star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Irradiate no more to fade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O! brightest and best they cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our long promised Israel's King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shine out from afar, thou bright morning star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To thee our offerings we bring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bethlehem! blest city of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like pilgrims to Mecca we come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thy hallowed site, on each Christmas night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Christ-child's humble home.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bells-of-st-michael" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bells of St. Michael</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come and listen to the chiming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of St. Michael's merry bells,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the joyous Christmas morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All of Bethlehem's story tells.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they sweetly chime the anthem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Glory to be to God on high,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the children swell the chorus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Earth to heaven seems very nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the gladsome Easter morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the earliest flow'rets bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snowdrops pure and violets purple</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Blend to scatter sweet perfume;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then your happiest notes are poured forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then your Jubilee is heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pealing out in joyful accents,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chiming, "God is very good."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From that ancient lofty turret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Overlooking land and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peals of comfort have been wafted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sounds of gladness o'er the lea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many a storm-tost, weary wanderer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Looked to thee as hope's bright star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listened to thy mellow chiming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Smiling as he crossed the bar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! old bells, beneath your tolling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Many a form lies buried low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Neath the green-sward of “God's Acre,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rest they, all their sorrows o'er.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly wave the bending willows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sweetly sing the birds their lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst thy dear old bells are clanging,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are singing hymns of praise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dear old bells your music thrills me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whether rung in joy or woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They recall the joyous spring time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of fond memory's “long ago”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweetly chime through all the ages;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As time's cycles swiftly move;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peal forth loudly, Grod is gracious;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whisper softly, He is love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-exiles-reverie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Exile's Reverie</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas sunset's hour, the glorious day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had in its beauty passed away:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sun had bathed in golden dyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This Southern land of sunny skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crimson clouds, like birds of wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did o'er the earth their radiance fling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While zephyrs sang amid the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And song-birds warbled to the breeze;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Spring, just bursting into birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had come once more to gladden earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Near Pensacola's margin, lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laved by its never ceasing spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The exile, from his native land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dweller on a foreign strand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as he lay kind thoughts of home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like visions of the past did come;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mem'ry's mirror pictured clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The starlight of his boyhood there;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hopes that clustered round his brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shrine at which he loved to bow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He mused aloud, Oh! Italy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Land of the chivalric, the free!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bruce may of Scotland tune his lyre.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But thee alone, can'st me inspire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Birthplace of beauty! never more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I behold thy vine-clad shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sward where I in childhood play'd—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The haunts deep in the forest shade—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The place where, mould' ring in decay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ashes of a sire lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why did I leave thee? As spring flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Return no more through summer hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When once they blossom, bear and die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No more will bloom neath sultry sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So heart of man when hopes have fled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And love lies buried with the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No second spring time sends one ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To cheer his path through life's dark day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hope's blossoms like the early dew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once passed away, naught can renew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Still I live on, and oft, at eve</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My isolated cot I leave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thence to this lonely nook I hie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To take a glance at days gone by.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each blue wave hastening to its goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(Fit type of the immortal soul)</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In thrilling accents seems to say</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou'rt nearing fast life's closing day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou soon wilt reach thy better home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The home where changes never come.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-snow-storm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Snow Storm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Gentle as a maiden's dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly as the gliding stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Falls the glittering, sparkling snow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its wealth of crystal pearls—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shining, pure-white coronals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its robe of silvery sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Decking earth like virgin queen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As the noiseless flakes descend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they downward quickly tend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Floating waves of downy snow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Garnered from the upper realms;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harvested by unknown hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gulfed from cloudland's brightest bower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent to earth as richest dower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Symbol pure, and emblem sweet!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Type of purity! 'twere meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That many swell the strain attuned.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clad with garb like angels wear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Robed in heaven's holiest gear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pure, white snow, I welcome thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hymning lays of minstrelsy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="maiden-and-river" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Maiden and River</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Maiden</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>River, why in ceaseless flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must yon ripple to and fro?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stop a while.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lonely on thy bank I stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your shining, pebbly strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canst thou not a moment stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the long, long summer day?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stop a while.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>River</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Child of earth dost thou not know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne'er can cease my endless flow?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I must go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward till I reach my outlet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out beyond the golden sunset,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seek not then to stay my flowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward still I must be going</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To my goal.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Maiden</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>River, when the storms are raging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wind and rain a warfare waging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Do you fear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When thy waves with whitened crest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toss around in wild unrest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doth thy bosom shake with fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembling, lest thy end is near?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Say, O! say.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>River</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Child, my race will ne'er be run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not till yonder blazing sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fades away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look t'wards the horizon's crest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the mighty Ocean's breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now its billowy waves are still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He who says it is My will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Keepeth me.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Maiden</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>River, should'st thou chance to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On thy journey through the lea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Snow white sail?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reaching out towards the clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quivering with its massive shrouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touch it gently with thy arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shield it safe from rude alarms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is mine.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>River</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Child of earth hast thou not heard?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That He knows of beast and bird</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Every hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can He not then bring to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Safe from o'er the murmuring sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mortal child O! ne'er despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ship ahoy!” may greet thy ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Soon, ay soon.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Maiden</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>River, then glide sweetly on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till thy goal is safely won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dost hear like thunder roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breaking from the golden shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awful words from saered lore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time for thee shall be no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">River, farewell.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="chicago-exposition-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chicago Exposition Ode</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Columbia, all hail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May thy banner ne'er be furled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Liberty, with her beauteous rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Enlighten all the world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Columbia, to thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From every clime we come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lay our trophies at thy feet—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our sunbright, glorious home.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas a lovely autumn morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the leaves were turning red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sturdy oaks and graceful pines</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their branches over-spread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the breezes softly swept</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The hills and valleys o'er;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dew-kissed earth with incense sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowned forest, grove and flower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On a grassy knoll near by</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the rustling leaves were piled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knelt a mighty chief of a mighty tribe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And his band of warriors wild.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the rising sun had shown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the trained eyes of that band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That vessels three, like white- winged birds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were steering straight for land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whence comes this stranger fleet?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whence hails this Pale Face crew?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the chieftain's brow was wrapped in pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As his tomahawk he drew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, with quivering voice, he said</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some evil may betide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the land of the sky this host has come—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let's haste to the river side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the warriors started forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like fawns through the forest trees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When lo! what a wondrous, solemn sight—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Pale Faces" on their knees!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the Holy Cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each with uncovered brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prayed the mighty God, that His blessings e'er</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might this fair land endow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the stalwart braves—awe-struck—,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With heads bowed low on breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the veteran sailor proudly cried</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">San Salvador, the blest!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this first, grand solemn act</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has been chronicled in heaven;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For, from East to West of this broad, fair land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has God's benison been given.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then hail! bright, sunny land!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Home of the free, the brave!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the eastern shores to the western plains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Let thy banner proudly wave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nations beyond the seas</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall worship at thy shrine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honor and wealth, and matchless power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Columbia! be thine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="atlanta-exposition-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Atlanta Exposition Ode</h2>
			<p>
				<span>"Cast down your bucket where you are,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From burning sands or Polar star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From where the iceberg rears its head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or where the kingly palms outspread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid blackened fields or golden sheaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or foliage green, or autumn leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come sounds of warning from afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Cast down your bucket where you are."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What doth it matter if thy years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have slowly dragged 'mid sighs and tears?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What doth it matter, since thy day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is brightened now by hope's bright ray.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The morning star will surely rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Ethiop's sons with longing eves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And outstretched hands, will bless the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When old things shall have passed away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come, comrades, from the East, the West!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, bridge the chasm. It is best.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, warm hearts of the sunny South,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And clasp hands with the mighty North.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise Afric's sons and chant with joy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Good will to all without alloy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The night of grief has passed away—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Orient gleams a brighter day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say, ye that wore the blue, how sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That thus in sympathy we meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our brothers who the gray did love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And martyrs to their cause did prove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say, once for all and once again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That blood no more shall flow in vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say Peace shall brood o'er this fair land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hearts, for aye, be joined with hand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hail! Watchman, from thy lofty height;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us, O tell us of the night?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>AY ill Bethlehem's Star ere long arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And point this nation to the skies?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will pæans ring from land and sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fraught with untrammelled liberty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Time's appointed course be run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Earth's millenium be began?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Cast down your bucket," let it be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As water flows both full and free!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let charity, that twice blest boon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy watchword be from night to morn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let kindness as the dew distil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To friend and foe, alike, good will;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till sounds the wondrous battle-call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all one flag, one flag for all.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="stars-and-stripes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Stars and Stripes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hail Flag of the Union! Hail Flag of the free!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That floateth so proudly o'er land and o'er sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy Stars and thy Stripes, in grandeur doth wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er hearts that are true and hands that are brave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When first thy bright pennant was lifted on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When first 'twas unfolded to patriot's eye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ovation that greeted thee, rose through the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like incense from altars of hearts true and dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hail Flag of our country, when thrown to the breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy power is acknowledged, far over the seas.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy influence so boundless, that none may deny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy potency reaches all lands, 'neath the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Should war like a dark cloud, encircle our land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its threat 'ning besom o'ershadow the main.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With head lifted high, thou would'st laugh them to scorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who from thy tall flagstaff would try to pull down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long, long may thy Stripes and thy Stars proudly wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er hearts that are true and hands that are brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ne'er may thy children, resign to the foe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Flag that was baptized, in blood long ago.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-eagle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Eagle</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fain would I rival thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Monarch of birds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soaring so loftily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Up to the clouds!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spreading thy pinions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And mounting on air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ethereally floating</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Divinely and fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is thy resting place?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where dost thou dwell?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the mountain thy home</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or the stern rock thy cell?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dost thou live in the desert?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is the forest thy lair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, where is thy resting place?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Eagle, say where?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Always tending upward</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May this be my aim;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ne'er swerving from duty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or shrinking from pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>‘Tis thus would I rival thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Monarch of birds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When soaring loftily</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Up to the clouds.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-crucifixion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Crucifixion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Why did the sun his beams conceal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if unwilling to reveal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That deed of mankind on the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Jesus, at the altar, lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A willing sacrifice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Earth, too, in terror shook, when He</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Mighty, died on Calvary;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When for our sins He bowed His head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gave up the ghost, and quickly sped</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To regions of the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And some who had for ages long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Been wrapped in slumber deep and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awoke, and by their converse showed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That death no more dominion had</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In that He died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why did He die? Ah! blissful thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we near death and hell were brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He left His Father's courts above—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, list to such amazing love—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And died to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why did He die? 'Twas love divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That caused Him all things to resign—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A heavenly choir, celestial home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exalted seat, seraphic song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blest thought! He reigns victorious now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To whom all earth will shortly how,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let men below and saints above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wonder at such stupendous love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As caused their God to die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="uranne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Uranne</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a far off hamlet near the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where billows oft, in days of storm, and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nights of darkness rush reckless to the shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where tall, white cliffs like watchmen keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A life-long vigil; Oft when the morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sunbeams gild their lofty peaks they seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like massive crystal vases adorned with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rays of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Hard-by those snowy cliffs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shielded safe from cutting winds and icy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blasts, stood an humble, unpretending cot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its low, thatched roof of matted moss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glimmered, when the morning sun brightened</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up the valley, and cast its rays aslant tli rough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tiny windows ignorant of glass.    Its well-</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scrubbed floor shone like polished wood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all around an air of quiet, peace and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love, prevailed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Within that cosy nest, there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dwelt three loving hearts, Nay, four, for on the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Very morn when Christmas bells were</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hinging o'er the land, When children of the rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And children of the poor alike, were talking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Christ-child, and his day, Unto them a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Child was given, And this lovely babe, blest Christmas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gift, — was richly prized. E'en now she knew her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father's voice, and leaped with joy at his return.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>But ah! the cry of war, broke o'er the land.    Cruel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>War, that rends the households and the hearts;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That makes fond bosoms bleed; and waters all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sod with tears, Salty, agonizing tears, which,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they dry, leave furrows never healing.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sorrows, never ceasing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The mandate came.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marco must go. What! leave the dear ones all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone. The gray-haired sire sunning himself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without the cottage door? The little wife in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blooming womanhood? The cherub who in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Human form had come to bless his home?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must he leave his treasures and away to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Distant shores, perchance, lay clown to die?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O! the thought was death itself.     Yet go he</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must. Each day he'd wander through the glade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where every blade and tuft of grass was dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So dear. All his life from babe to manhood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here was spent. Here he grew, and loved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wedded. Here the precious Mother in her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Green old age had yielded to the sharp scythe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Reaper Death.     Could he leave her?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">The day of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Parting came. The sun was high when Marco</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose. The cheery little table decked with snowy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cloth was laid. Out from their frugal hoard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Came every dainty Uranne could find.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Naught was too good for him. The dear, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faithful ! He who had done all in human power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make her life joyous.    Truly, she said, as tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lingered in her eyes, "My lines in pleasant places</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have been cast.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Well long they tarried o'er that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meal. It seemed as though 'twould never end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they were not eating. At last the babe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stretched forth its chubby hands and with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Infantile speech, broke up the silent meal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Marco arose,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father, adieu. Take care of these as best thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can'st. I know the load is much too great for</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thee. Whose silvery hairs are whitening o'er with age.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do all thou can'st and leave the rest to "Him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who notes when e'en the sparrows fall."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now, Uranne! truest and best, I can</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not give thee any more my heart, for thou had'st</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It all long ago. Thy love to me has been like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silver lining 'mid the clouds of life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has opened up my heart to kindlier feelings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all who on this earth have naught to cheer.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To solace them in hours like these.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">But time doth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fly.    Whether the moments teem with joy or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flit in sorrow.    So Marco said, e're yet I go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take this bunch of half -blown buds and place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon your breast, near your heart, and wear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them till I come.    Let naught divide 'twixt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thee and them.    'Mid summer's glow or winter's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cold, loved one, wear them next thy heart.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their very name, Forget-Me-Not, will 'mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thee of thy lover-husband.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Days, weeks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Months passed by.    No tidings yet had</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come to them, in that lone village by the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ofttimes the sire would hand-in-hand take</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Baby for a walk "by the sad, sea waves"—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then would the little one pick up shells</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And moss, and lisp so sweetly with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Infantile grace, that the aged form would</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Straighten up, as if once more the fires of youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burned brightly in his veins; and his old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bereaved heart would leap for joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Alas! when early</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spring had come, and the little snowdrops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gleamed in the valley, little Bright-eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Faded and was laid beneath them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O! then the sun went down in blackness grim.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the whole world seemed devoid of life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not worth living, the old man cried. And</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then he, too, alas! was laid beside the babe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">All through the long-,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long summer lonely Uranne dwelt. Her heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Low down beneath the Daisies. Uranne, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pride of him who now, alas! was no more. Perchance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He too was sleeping in that far-off land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a kindly hand to smooth his aching</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brow, or wipe from his cheeks the damp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death dews.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">One morning when the dew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had not yet left the sodden grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She left the cot to look for her beloved.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She sat her down 'mid the dingy rocks, which</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Girt the shore. The little ripples kissed her feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Caressingly. Long she looked for a white sail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To greet her tired eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Marco, dost hear Uranne's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Call? Wilt thon no more return?    My heart is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breaking with its load. No longer can I wait,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But list! I'll whhisper in thine ear,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The blue “Forget-Me Nots,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The sweet Forget Me Nots” which thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did'st place upon my breast.    Thou wilt see them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thou com'st.    None shall them remove.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweetheart, I keep them till you come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">There they found her cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stark.    With hand pressed close to heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where lay her flowers.    The sounding sea seemed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To forget to hurl its billows 'gainst the beach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now white and shining.    E'en the little ripples</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed to say, Uranne!     And the great</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mountain rocks would echo back, Uranne!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">Years went by. The war, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cruel war was at an end. And Peace with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flowing mantle had overspread the land;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With anxious heart, but willing feet, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soldier started for his dear old cabin nestled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So snugly in the valley.     Would he And them all?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dear old sire with his silvered hair—Perchance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had lain him down to sleep, beside the wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who had left him in his prime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">But she, the dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uranne, she was there, no doubt of that.    A stronger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Healthier lass ne'er spun the dance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then the baby, our baby.    How she must have</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grown. "Wonder if she remembers me, her own dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sire?    Who oft would soothe and rock to sleep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O yes; Uranne has taught her to love and lisp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i4">When the proud vessel dropped her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anchor in the Bay, no prouder man, nor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hopeful, than was Marco.    Lightly he sprang</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ashore. He looked to right, to left, no sign of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His loved ones cheered his gaze.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Uranne, he cried, What! no welcome for Marco?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Xo outstretched arms to fold me in love's embrace?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tottered to the cot all overgrown with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weeds and trailing vines.    O! stars above write</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On hardest stone, Desolate, forlorn—alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unconsciously he moved along the lane</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That led to the old church-yard.    The little</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tuneful bell that had pealed so joyously</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On his marriage eve, was silent now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saw no one, nor questions asked.    But</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slowly crept to where three mounds were</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raised all side by side. He closely scanned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Them all, when lo! upon the longest grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A beauteous tuft of blue Forget-Me-Nots—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aha! he cried, my bright, my blue Forget-Me-Nots!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My flowers which I placed upon her breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid her wear till we should meet again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My faithful one.    The seeds matured on thy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dear bosom, nourished by thine own mortality,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pushed their way to the sunlight of earth,    To</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cheer and to 'mind of faithful love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love which lasts even after the gates of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death are passed.    Then he wailed the whole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daylong: Come, O! come! Uranne, come!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like my flowers, leave your bed, too dark too</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drear for thee.    Uranne, come to me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or I will come to thee!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There they found him, there they laid him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his flowers and Uranne.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="magnolia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Magnolia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Magnolia! "Pale city of the dead,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adown thy gravelled walks I tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy marble pillars looming high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy polished shafts around me lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With soft, mild rays, the winter sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy tortuous pathways doth illume,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weeping-willow droops its head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To crown the "City of the Dead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On every side death's tracks I see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His footsteps grim encompass me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The high-born here, the lowly there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The proud man there, the humble here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rich has left his golden hoard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more he sits at festive board,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He could not bribe relentless death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"With all his garnered stores of wealth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here lies a maiden spotless fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose claim on life for many a year</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seemed sure. Bur the grim Reaper smiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bending, claimed her for his child.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So lovingly they made her bed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tenderly these garlands spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright emblems of a stricken flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now blooming in a sunnier bower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And here an infant's grave I see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere sin could stain its purity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It plumed its wings and upward soared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To live forever with its God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though fair the earth, it would not stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Much fairer still the land away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restrain me not, for I would go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where crystal fountains endless flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With slow, sad steps I press me on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a majestic tower of stone.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That tells me they who sleep around</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had for their country's weal laid down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their lives. Ah! many a widowed heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath bent and broke with sorrow's dart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For him who now beneath the sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yielded his spirit to his God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And many a youth with trappings gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Mid martial music liveliest, lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more in life returned to bless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their loved ones with a fond caress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But laid them down to their last sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In stranger land. Now angels keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A loving vigil o'er each grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bending branches o'er them wave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>City of Shadows! fondly keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The loved who in thy bosom sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shielded from every earthly care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They rest secure and free from fear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let grasses green and flow'rets bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Always illume thy paths with light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till from the heavens loud and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resounds the invitation dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Come up and meet me in the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">My people."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-my-mother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title"/>
			<p>
				<span>I took up the burden of life anew</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When she, the pure-hearted, died;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the golden cord was rent in twain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And she faded from my side.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the eyes grew dim that were wont to glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the holy light of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the spirit, freed from earthly care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sped to its rest above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the dreary days! Oh, the weary nights!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh, the anguish, who can tell?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the light of my life went swiftly out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the shadow athwart me fell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the wound was deep, and the woe was great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And its poignancy will blight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the onward course of my future years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till my faith be turned to sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I muse me now of the beautiful days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The halcyon days of yore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wonder if e'er on life's stormy sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such days I shall ever see more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sky is as blue-tinted now as then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the sunlight just as bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they gladden me not as in other days</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere she faded from my sight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The clouds with their purple and amber hues—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their gossamer robes of snow—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the stars at the quiet twilight hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In calm, clear beauty glow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And music sweet as Æolian harp</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is echoing far and wide—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, sure, naught gladdens my heart as before</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She faded away from my side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, Mother! in anguish I peer through the mists</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a future, so dark without thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The desert of life hath truly been blessed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"With an oasis sacred to thee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oft to this green spot of beauty I turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My shrine of affection, my pride;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For, surely, naught gladdens my heart as before</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou fadedst away from my side.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nestle-down-cottage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nestle-Down Cottage</h2>
			<p>
				<span>As I sit by the ruddy oak fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And feel the grateful glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come mem'ries sweet of a rustic cot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That stood near the pebbly shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With its porch so bright and sunny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the children loved to play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the sounding shells, from the sandy beach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All through the summer's day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where, where are the blessed little ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose childish voices sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who made the sunny porch resound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the patter of little feet?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One where the South Seas wildly break,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dash on the gleaming sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has made Him a home 'mid strangers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far, far from his native land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Another, the sweetest and dearest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has long 'neath the daisies been laid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O! dark as a pall was the hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When they whispered my darling was dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cottage still stands by the sea shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our sunny, bright “Nestle-Down,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we ask so sadly where, O! where</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are the little children gone?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mothers-recall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother’s Recall</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come back to me, O ye, my children:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come back to the home as of yore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As my longing eye peers through the vista of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Comes the heart-throbbing more and more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sit by the casement and listen</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the fall of the soft, sobbing rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E'en the winds gently sigh as if loth to reply—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain, fond mother, in vain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Are ye gone for aye? Shall I no more hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The ring and the din of glee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have my nestlings flown and left me alone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall their faces, I no more see?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sit, and I wait while the days go by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the months merge slow into years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the twilight deep and the mystic sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the hopes give place to fears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the Christmas chimes with its holy rhymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ring out o'er the frosty plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then I sit, and sigh for the "Sweet bye and bye"—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But the answer comes, "Mother in vain."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one of us, children, have gone forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To fight out life's battles alone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the future must prove if your labor of love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has, like bread on the waters, been thrown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So the twilight comes — and the fire burns low—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the day is ebbing fast—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon the merry chimes and the hallowed rhymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will be numbered with the Past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with hopeful eyes I'll scan the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Perchance, ere next Christmas-tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will my children come to their own dear home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And their place at mother's side.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dedicated-to-the-right-revd-d-a-payne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dedicated to the Right Rev'd D. A. Payne</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! surely 'tis a theme sublime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That stirs my soul to-day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awake then, muse nor slumber more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till sung the wondrous lay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My song shall be of one, whose youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And strength were freely given</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To elevate, instruct, and lead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Benighted souls to heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My song shall be of him, whose hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A mother's taste did mould;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose precepts noble were to her</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As apples of pure gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll tell of one whose virtues rare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In modesty enshrined;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who bears a lasting laurel wreath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">About his brow entwined.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who in the days that tried men's souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Did ne'er from duty quail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But wrought on ensign, lifted high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">There's no such word as fail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mem'ries so sweet are hov'ring round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That I, with Psalmist, say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“O! had I wings like turtle dove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quickly I'd fly away!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Away, away beyond the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where blooms the tree of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where limpid streams whose silent flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ne'er stir the sea of strife.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! Bishop, Pastor, Friend, may'st thou</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To green old age be spared;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, like a fully ripened ear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Go to thy rich reward.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="october" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">October</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Bright and beautiful art thou,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Autumn flowers crown thy brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Golden-rod and Aster blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Russet leaf with crimson hue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Half stripped branches waving by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Softly as a lullaby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell of summer's days gone by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell that winter's very nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the forest cool and chill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sadly moans the Whippoorwill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not as in the summer days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he gloried in his lays.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lower-toned, but sweet and clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like thy crisp and fragrant air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warbling forth with voice sublime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is nature's harvest time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Crickets chirp amid the leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Squirrels hop among the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brown nuts falling thick and fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the dewy, dying grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glowing sun with softer rays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harbinger of wintry days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell the year is going by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sighing forth its lullaby.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dying-girl" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dying Girl</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sister darling, ope the window, let the balmy air once more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fan my flushed and throbbing brow as in the happy days of yore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would gaze again in rapture on the brightly setting sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I know, my gentle sister, that the goal is almost won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See the crimson clouds are hov'ring round the glorious orb of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the far-off hills are basking in its golden, garnished ray:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen to yon forest warbler hymning sweet and joyous lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chanting forth its evening vespers to the sinking god of day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But sister, time is waning, after all it doth but seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That life is but a toilsome march, a weariness, a dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet I do not murmur, for if all the joys of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had not faded from my vision ere they ripened into birth,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If the shadows had not thickened as they clustered round my brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had I not turned from the altar, where I worshipped long ago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perchance I might have reveled full too deep in human love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And forgotten God, my Maker, and my happy home above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So 'tis well, and now I'm going to join that spirit band,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their never-ceasing music, making glad that starry land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I'm glad too, for I'm weary, and would rest me from my woe—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fain would land my stricken spirit on the banks of "Evermore."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And O! my dearly loved one, when sorrows round thee press,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hurling each deadly missile on thy pure and youthful breast—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then think upon thy dear one, O! may ne'er thy footsteps rove!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But meet me, surely meet me, in that happy home above.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Night's shades huns* o'er the valleys and obscured the forest green—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas o'er; that happy spirit had been robed in spotless sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they laid her 'mong the flowers, and the zephyr's tuneful play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resounds a woodland requiem at the sunset of each day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="alaska" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Alaska</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With thy rugged, ice-girt shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Draped in everlasting snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou'rt enthroned a queen.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crown of moss and lichen grey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frosted o'er with ocean spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All thy long, long wintry day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dark and stern thy mien.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From the cloudland fresh and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Falls the snow through crispy air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mantling vale and hill.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then old “Borealis" glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his fiery light that shows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Frozen nature in repose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">River, stream and rill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On thy north the Polar Sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thunders forth in wild melee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Mid gorges dark and steep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full many a ship with noble crew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lies low beneath thy waters bine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor left behind a single clew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But sleep a dreamless sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beside the far famed Yukon stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hundreds of men from distant lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All with the same desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold, gold's the watchword, yellow ore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That tempts him from his homestead door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Oh! alas he nevermore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May sit by household fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! if men would only toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dig and delve their own rich soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With vigor and with vim;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forth would spring the golden corn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud would ring the harvest song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life and health they would prolong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All through nature's prime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Under his own, his fruitful vine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath his laden fig tree green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He, like a king, would reign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bending low with purple yield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rivalling fair Eschkol’s fields,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He'd a potent influence wield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With his corn and wine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="on-parting-with-a-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">On Parting with a Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Can I forget thee?    No, while mem'ry lasts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine image like a talisman entwined,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around my heart by sacred friendship's ties</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remains unchanged, in love, pure love, enshrined.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can I forget thee?    Childhood's happy hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would like some flitting phantom mock and jeer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life's sunny hours, would quickly lose their charm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Lethe's slumbrous waves but touched me there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can I forget thee? 'Tis a sad, sad thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That friend from friend should thus be ruthless riven—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But list, methinks, a sweet voice whispers low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember, no adieus are spoke in heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can I forget thee?    No, though ocean's waves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May madly leap and foam 'twixt you and me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still o'er my stricken heart this yearning will remain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor time estrange my love, dear one, from thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though on earth again we never more may meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that bright Elysian where spirits, holy, dwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May we in concert with that transported throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unite, ne'er more (rapt thought) to say "farewell!'</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="twilight-musings" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Twilight Musing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I'm sitting by the hearthstone now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And my heart is lone and drear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems as though the autumn blast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had left its impress there.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As memory, backward, wends its way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unfolding to my gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those joyful hours of “Auld Lang Syne,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those lights of by-gone days.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm musing on the past, when I</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In childhood's thoughtless play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reveled in gladness, joy and mirth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor deemed one saddening ray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should ever cloud my gladsome heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or cause deep sorrow's moan—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ne'er dreaming of the time, alas!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When I'd be quite alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've listened to the morning's song</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of nature's feathered gems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long ere Aurora's roseate hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Illumined Orient's realms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as their carols wafted high</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On balmy zephyrs borne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tis then I muse, and sadly feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That I am quite alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've never heard the ocean's roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or felt its quivering thrill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor, on stern Neptune's bosom been,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When all was calm and still—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But o'er my heart, at times, there are</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such stormy billows borne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That then I sadly, truly feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That I am quite alone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-to-erin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song to Erin</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! Erin my country, my ancestor's home!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Impelled by my wants, I, from thee, had to roam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now my heart yearneth, sore longeth for thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My dear native Ireland, my "gem of the sea."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! Erin my country, thou land of the brave!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who'll rescue from tyr'ny, who'll ransom and save?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy despots so strong, are still wielding their power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bind thee in slavery both now and forever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Speak! speak! who will rescue our Emerald Isle?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now bowed by the oppressor in servitude vile!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her sons are all scattered, her daughters are gone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she is left desolate, forlorn and alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I‘ll sigh for thee Erin, when spring winds doth fan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With musical breathings, this far distant land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>‘Twill remind me of youth's happy days on thy shore—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of days, mournful thought, I shall never see more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'll weep for thee Erin, as tlie blue waters surge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall re-eclio my wailing, sliall chant the sad dirge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Ireland in slavery, once land of the free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Ireland, my country, my "gem of the sea."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-valentine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Valentine</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Lady with thine eyes of beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rivaling cerulean flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the love-beams seem to linger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Throughout youth's bright, sunny hours.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With thy smile of witching sweetness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like the magnet's mystic art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Charming oft enchanting oft'ner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Drawing to thee every heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But, fair lady, I'll no longer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Linger thus o'er nature's mould,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis thy spirit's beauty charms me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">More than mines of Peru's gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like an exile who hath wandered</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far from kindred and from home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pants and longs once more to greet them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Never more on earth to roam;—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like the tempest-tossed, the weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who of earth ne'er had their part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fain would land their stricken spirits</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where heart answers unto heart;—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So this bosom when overflowing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With some latent, deadly grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loves to revel in the music</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of thy voice to find relief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when joys do hover 'round me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Weaving chaplets rich and bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd away from pleasures turn me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To my beautiful "Starlight."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lady! could I seal thy future,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All of bliss and love 'twould be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when time with us is ended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spend eternity with thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to-florence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to Florence</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am sitting sad and lonely</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where I've often sat before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I am musing, fondly musing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of my Florence who pass'd o'er.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pass'd into the realms supernal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far 'bove cloud-lands lofty height;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yonder 'mid the fields Elysian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dwells my “Flor" ‘mong saints of light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Twas when autumn leaves were falling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'Twas when harvest days had come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That, King Death, the mighty reaper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Came to take my darling home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the winds were softly sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Zephyrs breathing low and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lulled to rest by such sweet music,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My bright treasure fell asleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Closely clasped to mother's bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the well-nigh bursting breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay the early stricken floweret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lay the heart so near its rest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And those little eyes upturning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brimful with their wealth of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mutely, though with earnest language,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Said, I'm hastening up above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Well, ere long, they said my darling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had this earth exchanged for heaven—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had upward spread her pinions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Leaving hearts with anguish riven.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes;    the autumn's wind so plaintive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With its music soft and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woo'd my birdie from my bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And she sweetly fell asleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when time with me is over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When my fleeting years have passed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! I trust once more to greet her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And this parting be the last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So, till then I wait expectant—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I, the Master's time doth "bide”—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to me the hour is precious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That my little Florence died.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="by-the-waters-of-babylon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">"By the Waters of Babylon"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>By the Rivers of Babylon we mournfully bent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With "harps on the willows” and vesture all rent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For burdened by sorrow and saddened by pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We felt that we no more could strike them again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This, this is a strange land, we will not then sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One song of our Zion, the home of our King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No rather let right hand its cunning forget,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than we to our loved home as recreants act.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O! City of God, though as captives we go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jerusalem's weal we'll never forego,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O! soon may the exiles of Israel return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sing Zion's songs in their own holy land.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mightier than the sword thou art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou can'st pierce like venomed dart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time and space count naught with thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leagues of land or leagues of sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou can'st waves of passion calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Griefs assuage like Gilead's balm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring sweet pleasure to the eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give sweet gladness for the sigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When thy little point is prest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oft it wounds some gentle breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filling chalice to the brim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Darkening life with sorrows grim.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Learned sage in days gone by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scanned thee with prophetic eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said to myriads then unborn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou would 'st rule on many a throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Swords may stab with savage ire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glistening out like rays of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They can ne'er thy power attain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er the sea or o'er the main.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mightier than the sword art thou,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo! on many a regal brow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Furrows which thy point has wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Troubles which thy work has brought.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mightier than the sword art thou,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>List! a maid records her vow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That so long as life shall last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ne'er a doubt shall love o'ercast</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Naught of bliss or naught of woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thou can'st on man bestow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thy tiny pointed prow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mightier than the sword art thou.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="passing-of-the-old-year" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Passing of the Old Year</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! the year is slowly dying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wind in tree-top sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chant his requiem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thick and fast the leaves are falling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High in air wild birds are calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nature's solemn hymn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the deep, dark forest lingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Imprints of his icy lingers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chill, and dark, and cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little streamlets flowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wintry sun so softly glowing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the maple's gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So, Old Year, gird on your armor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let not age, nor fear, nor favor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurry you along.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>List! the farewell echoes pealing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>List! the midnight hour is stealing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hark! thy dying song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say, Old Year, ere yet your death knell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rings from out yon distant church bell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say, what have yon done?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell of hearts you've sadly broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell of love dead and unspoken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere your course is run.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tell the mother who doth languish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O'er her graves in silent anguish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She will see again.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blooming bright "beyond the river”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Living on for aye and ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Every bright-eyed gem.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah! full many a spirit weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have wooed from paths so dreary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wafted them above.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now they say <em>Old Year</em> we bless thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raise thy head, we would caress thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For this home of love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On thy brow lies many a furrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thy eyes tell many a sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath its shadow cast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thy task is almost ended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon the path which thou hast wended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Will be called the "<em>Past</em>.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then, old dying year we hold thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To our hearts we fondly fold thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere the midnight bell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon thy race will now be ende,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Eternity be blended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So, Old Year, farewell.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sonnet-to-my-firstborn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sonnet to My First Born</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! waves in the sunlight gleaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Oh! billows with ceaseless roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring back to this aching heart of mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The laddie you bore long ago.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far out on on your restless bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far away from his boy-hood's home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I charge you waves of the deep, blue sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bid my wanderer come.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh! stars in the heavens twinkling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like lamps hung up in the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! moon look do wn through the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His try sting-place you may descry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then tell him a fond heart is aching,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In love for the dear one she bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh! surely to thee he will hearken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And haste to his own cottage door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The winds of the autumn are sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The leaves from the trees falling fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The roses that erstwhile were blooming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Say mournfully—Summer is past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The daisies have long ago slumbered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Their blossoms I search for in vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But surely for thee I will look, love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ere spring time brings them again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the Frost-King's robe is glistening</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er hill, and valley, and glen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the bright sleigh-bells are jingling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I know he'll come to me then.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So sunlight, or starlight, or moonlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wherever my truant you see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just tell him you left me a-waiting</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far over the deep blue sea.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-to" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines to ⸻</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O come to me in my dreams love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the world is wrapped in sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the silver moon like virgin queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her lonely vigils keep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all is hushed in calm repos —</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The earth, and sky, and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then hasten love to this far-off land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dwell one hour with me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O come to me in my dreams love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And cheer me on my way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bid me look to a higher land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the dawn of a brighter day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then breathe to heaven an earnest prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To bless, ere you depart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With perfect love and childlike faith,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This sad, despondent heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, do not forget to come, love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But on rosy pinions haste,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deluge my willing ear, with</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mementoes of the past.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell me, too, of that distant land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its sunshine and its flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in return my strain shall be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Magnolia's bright bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, do not fail to come love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For I'll woo my slumber to-night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll lay me down to sweet repose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wait for thee and light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then hie to my bower on wings of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, linger not by the way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But solace this heart and bid it hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the dawn of a brighter day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="highland-mary" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Highland Mary</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Will you leave the hills of Scotland?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your childhood's happy home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To brave the dangers of the deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In foreign lands to roam—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say, Mary, will you, for my sake</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Leave yonder joyous cot—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your youthful friends and scenes so dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To share a soldier's lot?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The battle's din, my Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has never met thine ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The woodlands' songsters melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is all that thou dost hear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vivid flash of musketry—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The cannon's thundering roar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must meet thine eye, burst on thine ear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sounds never heard before.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now, fond one, I've told you all.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I can say no more—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Will you go to the Indies, my Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And leave old Scotia's shore?”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cherokee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Cherokee</h2>
			<p>
				<span>‘Twas a cloudless morn and the sun shone bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dewdrops sparkled clear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hills and the vales of this Western land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were wreathed with garlands rare.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For verdant spring with her emerald robe</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Had decked the forest trees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst e'er and anon the vine-clad boughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Waved in the playful breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All, all was still, not a sound was heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Save the music of each tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As gracefully it bent and bowed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its branches o'er the lea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But hark! a sound, 'tis the Red mail's tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breaks on the silent air;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a sturdy warrior issues forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Robed in his native gear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And wandering on, he neared the brook;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Then sat him down to rest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas a noble sight—that warrior free—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That Monarch of the West.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gazed around. O! a wistful gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Saddened his upturned brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he thought of those he'd fondly loved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of those now laid so low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He mused aloud “Great Spirit!” list</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the Indian's earnest plea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell me why, from his own loved home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Must the Indian driven be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the "Pale Face" came to our genial clime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We wondered and were glad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then hied us to our chieftain's lodge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our noble “Flying Cloud.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We told him all, and he calmly said</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He'd gladly give them place;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if friends they proved, perchance, extend</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The calumet of peace.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon, alas! the dread truth rang</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the Pale Face was our foe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he made our warriors bite the dust—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our children lie so low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So now, my own, dear, sunny land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each, woodland and each dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once the Indian's home, now the Indian's grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I bid a last farewell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the “Great Spirit's" hunting-ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To meet my long-lost bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My "Raven Wing" I gladly hie—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He said, then calmly died.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rally-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rally Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come, let us join this festal lay—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurra, Hurra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, let us join this festal lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let our anthems all be gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sing aloud for this glad day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should brighten every heart:—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We'll sing of heroes who have fought—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurra, Hurra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll sing of heroes who have fought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who to their country's altar brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on her sacred ensign wrought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tree of liberty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We'll sing of martyrs who have died—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurra, Hurra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We'll sing of martyrs who have died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From severed ranks, as side by side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They bravely stemmed the gory tide.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To ransom brother man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our glorious banner's now unfurled—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurra, Hurra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our glorious banner's now unfurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May it soon wave o'er all the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every traitor standard hurled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From pinnacle to earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With gifted leaders in our van—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hurra, Hurra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gifted leaders in our van,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bright and noblest of our land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let patriots shout, as, hand in hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They welcome this glad day.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="serenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Serenade</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sleep, love sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The night winds sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In soft lullaby.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lark is at rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the dew on her breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So close those dear eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That borrowed their hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the heavens so blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep, love sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sleep, love sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pale moon looks down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the valleys around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Glow Moth is flying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Th South wind is sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I am low lying,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lute deftly strung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pour out my song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep, love sleep</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-coming-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Coming Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Just look, 'tis a quarter past six, love—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And not even the flies are caught;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, you know I must be at the office—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But, as usual, the breakfast’ll be late.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now hurry and wake up the children;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dress them as fast as you can;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Poor dearies,” I know they'll be tardy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dear me, “what a slow, poky man!”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Have the tenderloin broiled nice and juicy—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have the toast browned and buttered all right;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be sure you settle the coffee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Be sure that the silver is bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When ready, just run up and call me—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At eight, to the office I go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest poverty, grim, should overtake us—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“’Tis bread and butter," you know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bottom from stocks may fall out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My bonds may get below par;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then surely, I seldom could spare you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A nickel, to buy a cigar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All ready? Now, while I am eating,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Just bring up my wheel to the door;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then wash up the dishes; and, mind now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have dinner promptly at four;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For to-night is our Woman's Convention,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I am to speak first, you know—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men veto us in private,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But in public they shout, “That's so."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So "by-by"—In case of a rap, love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before opening the door, you must look;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O! how could a civilized woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Exist, without a man cook.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ode-to-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ode to Peace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come Peace, on snowy pinions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come, nestle like a dove;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Encircle earth's dominions</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With harmony and love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let anger, pride and malice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And strife forgotten lie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor from tlieir venomed chalice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Quaff more bitter draughts and die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come Peace, with arms extended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come, brood o'er this fair land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let battle scenes be ended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And heart be joined with hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let fields now crimsoned over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With the life-blood of the brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loom as monuments of warning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shine, as beacon lights to save.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come Peace, a welcome waits thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From many a stricken life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a heart-crushed mourner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now weary of the strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Methinks e'en now a footfall</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Breaks like music on my ear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the distant sound of gladness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When 'tis borne on summer's air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>May the echoes prove prophetic;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May thy murmurs from afar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shed a radiance as refulgent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beam as bright as Bethlehem's Star.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hearts that have been riven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the bosoms that have bled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon will change their griefs to gladness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yield to God and earth their dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-reverie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Reverie</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yon may speak of a grave in a distant land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or of one 'neath ocean's foam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the dolphins play o'er the sunny spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far from the dear old home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Where the coral peaks form a glorious tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the mighty waters lave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But there is naught in the wide world sought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like the heart's deep anguished grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You may tell of a grave 'neath the burning sands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the tropics fevered zone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where silence reigns o'er the desert plains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So desolate, so forlorn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the lion's roar is the liveliest sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That o'er that waste is heard—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the forest bird hymns a plaintive lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A requiem for the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again you may tell of a grave unsought</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Far from the home of youth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the willow weeps as the exile sleeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Akin to Mother Earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But O! methinks, there's not a woe</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That can the bosom cleave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or as deeply wound, as the lowly mound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O'er the heart's deep, anguished grave.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
