<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
	<br/>
	<br/>
	SUNSET.<br/>
	<br/>
	     All hail! thou gorgeous sunset,<br/>
	          With thy gold and purple clouds,<br/>
	     Tinting the vast horizon,<br/>
	          Like shadowy, fleecy shrouds.<br/>
	<br/>
	     The mountain crests are glowing,<br/>
	          The hills are crimson dyed,<br/>
	     The very air seems blushing,<br/>
	          Bathed in thy amber tide.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Soon the twilight shadows falling<br/>
	          Will thy glory chase away,<br/>
	     And weary man will welcome<br/>
	          The closing of the day.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Then the moon in silvery brightness,<br/>
	          Will show her pale, sad face;<br/>
	     And the stars as her attendants,<br/>
	          Will stud infinite space.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Low down amid the valley<br/>
	          Soon we'll hear the night-bird's song,<br/>
	     Calling softly to the south wind,<br/>
	          That the day of toil is done.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Then hail! thou glorious sunset,<br/>
	          Who in fullness can portray<br/>
	     The varied, wondrous beauty<br/>
	          Of a summer's sunset day.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	THE PAST.<br/>
	<br/>
	The Past it is fraught with many a feeling<br/>
	     Of pleasure, of sadness, of joy, and of pain;<br/>
	And 'tis sweet of an eve when dewdrops are falling,<br/>
	     To reflect on the days that can ne'er come again.<br/>
	<br/>
	The Past, it is pleasant ! Ah, memory recalls<br/>
	     The period of childhood, when joyous and free,<br/>
	With innocence crowned, in purity robed,<br/>
	     We revelled in gladness and sported in glee.<br/>
	<br/>
	The Past, it is saddening ! full many a loved one<br/>
	     That joined in each pleasure, partook of each pain,<br/>
	Have passed on before, to the spirit land flown,<br/>
	     And left us below, till their prize we attain.<br/>
	<br/>
	The Past's irrevocable ! every word we've spoken,<br/>
	     Or action committed, been stamp 'd with its seal<br/>
	Immortal, enduring, 'twill stand sure forever,<br/>
	     As no time can efface, nor effulgence reveal.<br/>
	<br/>
	Then, then, should the Present be valued and used<br/>
	     As a boon from the Author and Giver of gifts;<br/>
	That so, when 'tis past, we could always enjoy<br/>
	     The pleasant assurance of its being well spent.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MARRIAGE.<br/>
	<br/>
	     The die is cast, come weal, come woe,<br/>
	          Two lives are joined together,<br/>
	     For better or for worse, the link<br/>
	          Which naught but death can sever.<br/>
	     The die is cast, come grief, come joy.<br/>
	          Come richer, or come poorer,<br/>
	     If love but binds the mystic tie,<br/>
	          Blest is the bridal hour.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	FOR WHO?<br/>
	<br/>
	When the heavens with stars are gleaming<br/>
	     Like a diadem of light,<br/>
	And the moon's pale rays are streaming,<br/>
	     Decking earth with radiance bright;<br/>
	When the autumn's winds are sighing,<br/>
	     O'er the hill and o'er the lea,<br/>
	When the summer time is dying,<br/>
	     Wanderer, wilt thou think of me?<br/>
	<br/>
	When thy life is crowned with gladness.<br/>
	     And thy home with love is blest,<br/>
	Not one brow o'ercast with sadness,<br/>
	     Not one bosom of unrest—<br/>
	When at eventide reclining,<br/>
	     At thy hearthstone gay and free,<br/>
	Think of one whose life is pining,<br/>
	     Breathe thou, love, a prayer for me.<br/>
	<br/>
	Should dark sorrows make thee languish,<br/>
	     Cause thy cheek to lose its hue.<br/>
	In the hour of deepest anguish,<br/>
	     Darling, then I'll grieve with you.<br/>
	Though the night be dark and dreary,<br/>
	     And it seemeth long to thee,<br/>
	I would whisper, “be not weary;”<br/>
	     I would pray love, then, for thee.<br/>
	<br/>
	Well I know that in the future,<br/>
	     I may cherish naught of earth;<br/>
	Well I know that love needs nurture,<br/>
	     And it is of heavenly birth.<br/>
	But though ocean waves may sever<br/>
	     I from thee, and thee from me,<br/>
	Still this constant heart will never,<br/>
	     Never cease to think of thee.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	JUNE.<br/>
	<br/>
	     I am the month when roses<br/>
	          Bloom brightest o'er the glade,<br/>
	     I am the month when marriages<br/>
	          I lost happily are made.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Mine is the time of foliage,<br/>
	          When hills and valleys teem<br/>
	     With buds and vines sweet scented,<br/>
	          All clothed in glowing green.<br/>
	<br/>
	     My nights are bright and starry,<br/>
	          My days are long and clear<br/>
	     And truly I'm the fairest,<br/>
	          Of all months in the year.<br/>
	<br/>
	     With night dews gently falling,<br/>
	          With bees upon the wing,<br/>
	     And tiny rills soft rippling<br/>
	          Amid the valleys sing.<br/>
	<br/>
	     The farmer with his ploughshare,<br/>
	          Swift turning up the sod,<br/>
	     His brawny arms at labor,<br/>
	          His soul with Nature's God.<br/>
	<br/>
	     The Lark with sweetest carol,<br/>
	          Doth greet the rising sun,<br/>
	     The Mock-bird at the even,<br/>
	          Loud whistles day is done.<br/>
	<br/>
	     O! I'm the month of beauty,<br/>
	          The summer's crown I claim,<br/>
	     Now whisper to me softly,<br/>
	          And tell me what's my name.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TRIBUTE TO A LOST STEAMER.<br/>
	<br/>
	O! sing ye a dirge for the loved and the lost,<br/>
	     That have found them a home 'neath the coral reefs deep;<br/>
	That have laid them to rest 'neath the murmuring surge,<br/>
	     Where the whistling wind wails o'er their sweet, but sad sleep.<br/>
	<br/>
	They have gone to their home—their last resting-place<br/>
	     The blue waves embraced and called them their own;<br/>
	While the depths of the sea and the billows thereof<br/>
	     Are mournfully sighing their sad requiem.<br/>
	<br/>
	Down, down through the mass of the waters they sped,<br/>
	     Amid the dark chambers so mystic, so drear;<br/>
	'Till perchance they selected some ruby-lit bed,<br/>
	     To sleep their last sleep 'mid jeweled gems rare.<br/>
	<br/>
	O! 'tis sweet now to ponder, though many have gone<br/>
	     To that far-off bourne whence no traveller returns,<br/>
	That the sea shall not always their bodies retain,<br/>
	     For Jehovah hath said, she must yield them again.<br/>
	<br/>
	One bright little jewel outlived the dark storm,<br/>
	     So fatal to many, yet—blissful to tell—<br/>
	His “Father in heaven" preserved him from harm,<br/>
	     O, parent rejoice! with your Louis 'tis well.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	A REQUIEM.<br/>
	<br/>
	O, insatiable monster! Could’st thou not<br/>
	In pity turn aside thy venom ed shaft<br/>
	From her my gifted, darling friend?<br/>
	Has sympathy within thy breast<br/>
	No trysting place? That thou must come<br/>
	At spring-time when the flowerets bloom<br/>
	To bear my loved one to the tomb?<br/>
	<br/>
	So young was she; life's woes had not yet dimmed<br/>
	The joyous sunshine of her girlhood's days;<br/>
	She did not quaff the dregs of time,<br/>
	But, like some rosebud prematurely culled,<br/>
	She sped away, and o'er her grave<br/>
	So peacefully the willows wave,<br/>
	And dewdrops, her calm bosom lave.<br/>
	<br/>
	Tread not the earth where sleeps my loved one's form;<br/>
	But place it lightly on her marble brow.<br/>
	Bid birdies sing at set of sun<br/>
	To gladden Fannie’s lowly home;<br/>
	Bid rippling springs with shining spray,<br/>
	And sylvan notes and songsters lay<br/>
	Unite, to chase the gloom away.<br/>
	<br/>
	Blest child! she did not tarry long, and yet,—<br/>
	O, happy thought—she did not live in vain,<br/>
	If truly she did seek and find<br/>
	The “Pearl of Price," that precious boon,<br/>
	Then ne'er to her could come too soon<br/>
	The summons to an early tomb.<br/>
	<br/>
	Blest child, rest! while gentle zephyrs breathe<br/>
	Their fragrance through the waving trees;<br/>
	All nature decked in gorgeous array<br/>
	Is reveling now, but soon alas!<br/>
	Like thee, 'twill fade.    The autumn's knell<br/>
	Will ere long peal like funeral bell<br/>
	Its dirge like sounds, "Friend, fare thee well."<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	THE GRAFTED BUD.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Life's stormy surge had scarcely touched<br/>
	          Her blooming, beauteous brow.<br/>
	When rudely torn from earthly bliss,<br/>
	     A budded, broken flower.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Methinks I see her brilliant eye,<br/>
	          When smiles played softly there,<br/>
	     As gentle as the summer's breeze,<br/>
	          So radiant, sweet and clear.<br/>
	<br/>
	     But ah! frail nature gave away,<br/>
	          And she was doomed to die,<br/>
	     So young in years, so bright, so fair.<br/>
	          In the cold grave to lie.<br/>
	<br/>
	     So to the realms of light and life<br/>
	          Her uncaged spirit fled;<br/>
	     There to remain until the trump<br/>
	          Shall sound to wake the dead.<br/>
	<br/>
	     There with the Saviour she abides,<br/>
	          There tunes the sacred lyre,<br/>
	     Regardless of th' impending day,<br/>
	          And dreading not its ire.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TO A LOVED ONE.<br/>
	<br/>
	          I'll think of thee, mine own, dear one<br/>
	                    As morn's first blushing ray<br/>
	          Diffuses light o'er the dim earth—<br/>
	                    Turns darkness into day.<br/>
	<br/>
	          I'll think of thee at eve, my love,<br/>
	                    When moon and star appear—<br/>
	          When in the horizon of my hope<br/>
	                    All, all is bright and clear.<br/>
	<br/>
	          I'll think of thee when joy doth cast<br/>
	                    Its gladness o'er my heart,<br/>
	          As peace, and love and happiness<br/>
	                    Seem new life to impart.<br/>
	<br/>
	          I'll think of thee when dark shades fall<br/>
	                    Athwart my fevered brow;<br/>
	          When low in death I hear thee lisp—<br/>
	                    "I'm waiting for thee now."<br/>
	<br/>
	          I'll think of thee, my darling one.<br/>
	                    While I have life and breath;<br/>
	          And seal the assurance fervently,<br/>
	                    I'll think of thee in death.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	THE NATIVITY.<br/>
	<br/>
	The gloom of night had overspread the land,<br/>
	Swaying its dread sceptre o'er every man;<br/>
	For superstition like a monarch reigned,<br/>
	And Adam's sons were fettered by its chain.<br/>
	<br/>
	When the fulfilment of the promise came,<br/>
	A Saviour! born to-day in Bethlehem;<br/>
	Gabriel, the news, the joyful news revealed<br/>
	By night, to some poor shepherds in the field.<br/>
	 <br/>
	Go now to Bethlehem, behold the Babe—<br/>
	Though Lord of all, He's in a manger laid!<br/>
	Among the horned cattle there you'll find<br/>
	The Prince of Peace, the Saviour of mankind.<br/>
	<br/>
	The Shepherds then in haste obeyed his word.<br/>
	Guided by flaming star to view their Lord;<br/>
	They entered in, when, judge of their surprise—<br/>
	An infant, a Redeemer, burst upon their eyes.<br/>
	<br/>
	Amazed, affrighted, trembling, they<br/>
	Gazed on the Babe as there He lay;<br/>
	Though in a manger yet He bore<br/>
	Rare tokens of Almighty power.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TO THE MOCK-BIRD.<br/>
	<br/>
	Bird of the woodland, sing me a song,<br/>
	Fain would I list to thee, all the day long.<br/>
	Out from thy cosy nest, 'mid leafy bower,<br/>
	Lift high thy tuneful voice—'tis summer's hour.<br/>
	<br/>
	Bird of the forest, with voice sublime,<br/>
	Gladdening with thy music all summer time,<br/>
	E'en while the Autumn's winds bend low the trees,<br/>
	Sweetly still thy carols float with the breeze.<br/>
	<br/>
	Queen of the song-realm, what doest thou?<br/>
	Up amid the leaflets, rocking on the bough,<br/>
	Ah! little trickster, building thee a nest,<br/>
	Cosy, soft and warm, for thy wee ones to rest.<br/>
	<br/>
	Bird of the south-land, haste thee and bring<br/>
	Tributes of thy melody, welcoming the spring,<br/>
	Say to sombre winter—up and away,<br/>
	This my time of minstrelsy, bright, sunny May<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	IN MEMORIAM<br/>
	REV. SAMUEL WESTON.<br/>
	<br/>
	Oh! surely for thee were the gates ajar,<br/>
	     As thy chariot onward sped,<br/>
	When with brightened eye and youth renewed,<br/>
	     Triumphant thou did'st tread<br/>
	Through the gates of death, to the portals bright,<br/>
	     While the ransomed myriads sing,<br/>
	"Lift up your heads, ye Golden Gates,"<br/>
	     Let the aged pilgrim in.<br/>
	<br/>
	No terrors for thee had the darksome vale,<br/>
	     For like the wise virgins of old,<br/>
	Thou keep'st thy lamp burning and trimmed from thy youth,<br/>
	     Till three-score and ten were well told.<br/>
	And oft, as a shepherd, that tends his flock,<br/>
	     Thou did'st then to still waters lead,<br/>
	And 'mid the green pastures of justified grace,<br/>
	     Thou lovedst thy children to feed.<br/>
	<br/>
	Then Pastor and Leader, fond Parent, adieu,<br/>
	     Till the last, grand trump shall sound,<br/>
	When shepherd and flock united once more,<br/>
	     Shall echo a long harvest home.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TO REV. THADDEUS SALTUS.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Sleep, Christian warrior, sleep,<br/>
	          Life's fitful dream is o'er,<br/>
	     Thy pain-tossed bark is anchored<br/>
	          Safe on the golden shore.<br/>
	     ‘Neath the green sward we lay thee<br/>
	          Thus early to thy rest,<br/>
	     And press the sod thus lightly,<br/>
	          Upon thy gentle breast.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Though but in manhood's prime,<br/>
	          When the dread summons came,<br/>
	     To hush the voice so well attuned<br/>
	          To preaching  “In His Name."<br/>
	     Thou did'st not murmur, but with joy<br/>
	          Obeyed the Master's word,<br/>
	     And rapture crowned did'st enter<br/>
	          The palace of thy Lord.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Then sweetly sleep, dear Rector,<br/>
	          Thy grave we'll deck with flowers,<br/>
	     An earnest of that Better Land<br/>
	          Of ever blooming bowers.<br/>
	     Around this spot a halo twines,<br/>
	          While angels vigils keep,<br/>
	     And we rejoice that thus "He gives<br/>
	          To His beloved sleep."<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TRIBUTE TO<br/>
	CAPT. F.W. DAWSON<br/>
	<br/>
	Carolina mourns to-day.    For he, the gifted<br/>
	Son of her adoption, is no more.    The voice<br/>
	That stirred the bosoms of her sons, and<br/>
	Made her ramparts ring from mount to<br/>
	Sea-board, is hushed in death.   His<br/>
	Noble form, and nobler mien that<br/>
	Never faltered 'mid the cannon's<br/>
	Roar, lies motionless.<br/>
	<br/>
	So Carolina weeps.     'Tis meet she should—<br/>
	Her chieftain lieth low.     In this<br/>
	Grand, old City by the Sea, this Venice<br/>
	Of the Southland.     The home he loved<br/>
	So well.     When the grey morn breaks,<br/>
	And when the twilight lingers, they<br/>
	Chant in low, sweet music, evening<br/>
	Vespers for his soul.<br/>
	<br/>
	Then, Carolinians, build a monument for him;<br/>
	But not on marble cold.     Not on<br/>
	Towering dome or polished shaft,<br/>
	Should his memory be engraved.     But<br/>
	In the hearts of those he loved and<br/>
	Served, should immortelles, perpetual, bloom;<br/>
	And incense, fragrant, ever rise<br/>
	To his memory.<br/>
	                          Requiescat in Pace.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MRS. LOUISE B. WESTON.<br/>
	<br/>
	     My Mother! With the angels now,<br/>
	          Life's race completely run;<br/>
	     The Pilgrim's cross is laid aside,<br/>
	          The Christian's crown is won.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Full two-score years has thy frail bark<br/>
	          Relentlessly been driven,<br/>
	     Along the rugged shoals of time—<br/>
	          Now safely moored in heaven.<br/>
	<br/>
	      Some vision bright of Eden's land—<br/>
	          Some glimpse from Nebo's crest—<br/>
	     So ravished thy enraptured soul,<br/>
	          Then panting for its rest,<br/>
	<br/>
	     That when the City bathed in gold<br/>
	          Full burst upon your sight,<br/>
	     You would not tarry with us more;<br/>
	          Your spirit took its flight.<br/>
	<br/>
	     My Mother, when life's sands run low,<br/>
	          In love, in kindness come,<br/>
	     And take the spirit of thy child,<br/>
	          And bid her “welcome home.”<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	LINES TO MRS. ISABEL PEACE.<br/>
	<br/>
	'Tis said but a name is friendship,<br/>
	     Soulless, and shallow, and vain;<br/>
	That the human heart ne'er beats in response,<br/>
	     Or echoes sweet sympathy's strain.<br/>
	<br/>
	But to-day in "memory's mirror"<br/>
	     Came a dear and honored one.<br/>
	Whom in days gone by had lived and had loved.<br/>
	     Ere her heavenly goal was won.<br/>
	<br/>
	Her countenance beamed as of yore,<br/>
	     With radiant smiles of love,<br/>
	And I felt that the friendship she lavished me here,<br/>
	     Had ripened in heaven above.<br/>
	<br/>
	I felt that her voice so winsome,<br/>
	     Attuned to holier rhymes,<br/>
	Would in soft cadence tell of friendship's truth,<br/>
	     Like harp of a thousand strings.<br/>
	<br/>
	Rise up and call her blest!<br/>
	     Ye children of her love,<br/>
	For a friendlier hand or a kindlier heart<br/>
	     Ne'er entered the mansions above.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	In Memoriam.<br/>
	ALPHONSE CAMPBELL FOKDHAM.<br/>
	Aged 6 Years, 2 Months, 20 Days.<br/>
	<br/>
	          Almost whose last words were<br/>
	          "We shall meet beyond the River."<br/>
	<br/>
	     Yes, my darling, when life's shadows<br/>
	          Over me do darkly fall,<br/>
	     Meet me surely at the river<br/>
	          As I haste to obey the call.<br/>
	     Gladly through the darksome valley,<br/>
	          Through its portals, grim and cold,<br/>
	     Will I hasten 'till my nestling<br/>
	          Meets me at the "Gates of Gold."<br/>
	<br/>
	     Sadly do I miss my wee one,<br/>
	          None can till thy vacant place,<br/>
	     Only in my dreams I fold thee,<br/>
	          Only then behold thy face.<br/>
	     See thee in thy childish beauty,<br/>
	          Clasp thy little hand in mine,<br/>
	     Ever will those moments chain me,<br/>
	          Ever in my heart enshrined.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Little Heartsease, “bud of promise”<br/>
	          Broken off in early morn,<br/>
	     Now can sin no more pollute thee<br/>
	          In the angels' bosom borne.<br/>
	<br/>
	     In that land no pain or anguish<br/>
	          Ever can my child enfold,<br/>
	     Then my darling meet thy mother<br/>
	          Surely at the "Gates of Gold.”<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MR. EDWARD FORDHAM.<br/>
	<br/>
	     When the Autumn's breezes<br/>
	          Were sweeping o'er the land,<br/>
	     Came the mighty mandate<br/>
	          From the upper land.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Now from pain and anguish<br/>
	          Thou hast found relief,<br/>
	     Passed through death's dark portal,<br/>
	          Left this world of grief.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Now thou’rt safely anchored<br/>
	          In the port aboye,<br/>
	     Gladly do we offer thee<br/>
	          Symbols of our loye.<br/>
	<br/>
	     When the welcome summons<br/>
	          Shall echo through the skies,<br/>
	     Then our ransomed brother<br/>
	           Will hear the word “Arise.”<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	Death of a Grandparent.<br/>
	MRS. JENNETTE BONNEU.<br/>
	<br/>
	Rest thee aged pilgrim, now thy toils are o'er;<br/>
	Peacefully thou'st landed over Jordan's shore;<br/>
	Safe from all the sorrows, free from all the strife,<br/>
	Thon hast passed death's portals, entered into life.<br/>
	<br/>
	Doubtless thou wert weary, tempest tossed so long;<br/>
	Doubtless thou wert longing to join the happy throng;<br/>
	Doubtless many loved ones on the other shore,<br/>
	Whispered to thee softly “Stay on earth no more.”<br/>
	<br/>
	Whispered thee, come higher, where perennial bloom<br/>
	Shall with heightened luster its wonted sway resume.<br/>
	“Come where peaceful rivers quietly do flow—<br/>
	Hasten mother, hasten, from that world of woe."<br/>
	<br/>
	Then to fields Elysian she joyfully did soar,<br/>
	In the blest land of Canaan to dwell forever more;<br/>
	All through the “Golden City” she happily doth roam,<br/>
	Oft wondering why she stay'd so long away from home.<br/>
	<br/>
	So 'neath the bending willows we've laid thee down to rest,<br/>
	Well knowing thou'rt reposing secure on Jesus' breast;<br/>
	Well knowing that one day will come, the welcome word Arise,<br/>
	Come up, thou ransomed mortal, to thy Saviour in the skies.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	QUEENIE.<br/>
	<br/>
	For one brief day, did Queenie stay<br/>
	     To brighten each, fond heart,<br/>
	Then sped like dove to realms above,<br/>
	     Ne'er more to feel death's dart.<br/>
	<br/>
	O! in that land, where infants stand<br/>
	     Arrayed in spotless sheen,<br/>
	No griefs to share, nor sorrows bear,<br/>
	     No death to intervene.<br/>
	<br/>
	We would not care, nay, would not dare<br/>
	     To wish thee back again,<br/>
	Nay, rather say, ''Queenie, good day,<br/>
	     Till we your rest attain."<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	TO AN INFANT.<br/>
	<br/>
	Just as the twilight's holy hour<br/>
	     In quietude so deep,<br/>
	Was hushing nature to repose,<br/>
	     Our "Charlie" fell asleep.<br/>
	<br/>
	Just in the bloom of infancy,<br/>
	     We laid him to his rest,<br/>
	Well knowing that our angel boy<br/>
	     Was numbered with the blest.<br/>
	<br/>
	Well knowing that the Saviour said<br/>
	     Oh! suffer such to come,<br/>
	“Forbid them not," for they are Mine,<br/>
	     And heaven is their home.<br/>
	<br/>
	So bow we to God's gracious will,<br/>
	     For he was lent, not given;<br/>
	And let this cheer our drooping hearts,<br/>
	     Our Charlie is in heaven.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	In Memoriam.<br/>
	SUSAN EUGENIA BENNETT.<br/>
	<br/>
	When the Sabbath was declining, just at twilight's mystic hour,<br/>
	Left the u Upper Courts" an angel, sent to cull our sweetest flower,<br/>
	Not in judgment, not in anger, did this white-winged seraph come,<br/>
	But to lead a little Pilgrim through Death's Portal to her home.<br/>
	<br/>
	And our angel child was ready, aye, and anxious to depart—<br/>
	Not the slightest doubt o'ershadowed her trusting little heart;<br/>
	But with a brow as radiant as rainbow in the sky,<br/>
	She whispered softly "Mother, I'm not afraid to die."<br/>
	<br/>
	When shall these little, weary limbs lie down to sweet repose,<br/>
	'Mid the green, the verdant pastures where the limpid water flows;<br/>
	When shall I the Golden City sparkling in its beauty see,<br/>
	"When shall it be, my Saviour, O! when shall I be free?”<br/>
	<br/>
	Ere the week-day with its labors, its duties and its care—<br/>
	Was ushered in, our darling was found on earth no where;<br/>
	But with the saints in glory, and the Saviour she adored,<br/>
	She's happy and at rest, for aye and ever with the Lord.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MRS. REBECCA WESTOX.<br/>
	<br/>
	"For so He giveth His beloved sleep."<br/>
	<br/>
	     She is not dead, but sleepeth;—<br/>
	          Ere long will the morning break,<br/>
	     When those we love who sleep in Him,<br/>
	          Shall from the dust awake.<br/>
	<br/>
	     She is not dead, but sleepeth;—<br/>
	          Soon, soon will the ransomed sing<br/>
	     O! grave, where is thy victory?<br/>
	          O! death, where is thy sting?<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MRS. E. COHRS BROWN.<br/>
	<br/>
	Tread not the earth where lies her youthful form,<br/>
	Grow violets, sweet violets, above that cherished mound;<br/>
	Bid zephyrs softly whisper in accents sweet and low,<br/>
	Not dead, not lost, but only gone a little while before.<br/>
	<br/>
	So, I, though bowed in anguish, yield her spirit to its God,<br/>
	And meekly clasp the smiting hand, and kiss the chast'ning rod;<br/>
	May I, when time is over, greet thee on the other shore,<br/>
	To live and love for aye and aye, where partings are no more.<br/>
	<br/>
	<br/>
	MRS. MARY FURMAN WESTON BYRD.<br/>
	Obituary.<br/>
	<br/>
	     BYRD. — "As one who wraps the drapery of his<br/>
	couch about him and lies down to pleasant dreams, ' ' thus<br/>
	sweetly passed from earth to glory, on the morning of<br/>
	the 19th of February, 1884, Mrs. Mary Furman<br/>
	Weston Byrd, in the 92d year of hex age, leaving two<br/>
	children, twelve grand-children, and twenty great-<br/>
	grandchildren, to mourn her irreparable loss.<br/>
	     "Rising up they call her blessed." Another<br/>
	ancient landmark has been gathered to her<br/>
	Fathers. With her death a link is severed which<br/>
	bound two centuries together. The venerable subject<br/>
	of this notice was born in 1792, of parents who were<br/>
	both e riles from their native land; one being born in<br/>
	Morocco, Barbary States, the other in Marseilles,<br/>
	France. During her eventful life she passed throng<br/>
	three wars; that of 1812 in her girlhood, after the<br/>
	Mexican and the late Civil Wars. Possessed of a<br/>
	loving heart and cheerful disposition, charity was the<br/>
	guiding star of her life. Her widow's mite was never<br/>
	faund wanting. In her the distressed and the needy<br/>
	met always a ready response. She died as she lived,<br/>
	beloved and venerated by legions to whom her very<br/>
	name was a household word. So then,<br/>
	 <br/>
	     Though no blossoms cluster<br/>
	          Above thy aged brow,<br/>
	     Though winter winds are breathing<br/>
	          A requiem soft and low,<br/>
	     We look beyond earth's shadows,<br/>
	          Beyond death's misty plain.<br/>
	     And though we sadly miss thee,<br/>
	          Will not wish thee back again.<br/>
	<br/>
	     Could we but see thee, dear one,<br/>
	          In the Palace of thy Lord,<br/>
	     With thy robe of snowy whiteness,<br/>
	          And with more than youth renewed.<br/>
	     No more on bended willows<br/>
	          Would our broken harps remain,<br/>
	     Take us beauty for our ashes,<br/>
	          Take us gladness for our pain.<br/>
	<br/>
	 </body>
</html>
